usage.md, before:

This page covers how to get up and running with RatingRelay.

The general steps are:
- Clone the repository: `git clone https://codeberg.org/hnolan/ratingrelay.git`
- Set environment variables
- Set up the project environment
- Run once to make sure everything works
- Set to run automatically at regular intervals

# 1. Environment variables

Start by renaming the file `.env.example` to `.env` and filling out the required values:
- `SERVER_URL`: the URL to reach your Plex server
- `MUSIC_LIBRARY`: the title of your music library
- `RATING_THRESHOLD`: a number between 0 and 10; any tracks with a rating equal to or greater than this number will be submitted as Loved Tracks
- `BIDIRECTIONAL`: set to `true` to enable the application to write new ratings to Plex tracks if a track has been loved on an external service but has no rating on Plex

**Note:** you do not need to modify `PLEX_CID` or `PLEX_TOKEN`. They are set automatically during the authentication process. If you don't see these values in your `.env` file, don't worry, they are added during the authentication process.

For Last.fm usage:
- `LASTFM_API_KEY` and `LASTFM_SECRET`: obtain these at https://www.last.fm/api/account/create
- `LASTFM_USERNAME` and `LASTFM_PASSWORD`: your Last.fm username and password.
  - These are required to automate the authentication process. Without them, you would need to open a web browser and authorize the application every time the script is run.

For ListenBrainz usage:
- `LISTENBRAINZ_TOKEN`: obtain at https://listenbrainz.org/settings/
- `LISTENBRAINZ_USERNAME`: your ListenBrainz username

# 2. Set up project environment

## Option 1: Docker (preferred)

Run the following commands to 1) build the image and 2) run the script.

```bash
docker build . -t ratingrelay:latest
docker run -v $(pwd)/.env:/app/.env --rm ratingrelay:latest
```

The scripts in `./run_scripts/` are included to conveniently launch such containers via cron.

## Option 2: Local python

This method will run the script directly on your host machine using a Python virtual environment.

### With uv

- [Install uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/#installation)
- Clone the repository: `git clone https://codeberg.org/hnolan/ratingrelay`
- Enter the directory and install dependencies: `cd ratingrelay && uv sync --frozen`

You can now run the script with either of the below:
- `uv run /path/to/repo/ratingrelay.py`
- `/path/to/repo/.venv/bin/python /path/to/repo/ratingrelay.py`

### With pip

If you insist on running via a local Python installation, I strongly recommend using uv, which provides easier ways to manage Python projects. If, for whatever reason, you do not wish to use uv, you can set up a Python environment with pip.

- Clone the repository: `git clone https://codeberg.org/hnolan/ratingrelay`
- Enter the directory: `cd ratingrelay`
- Create a virtual environment: `python -m venv .venv`
- Activate the virtual environment: `source .venv/bin/activate`
- Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

To run the script, either
- Activate the virtual environment before executing: `source /path/to/repo/.venv/bin/activate && python /path/to/repo/ratingrelay.py`
- Use the virtual environment's interpreter to execute: `/path/to/repo/.venv/bin/python /path/to/repo/ratingrelay.py`


# 3. First run

The first time you run the script, you will need to check the logs for a Plex authentication URL. This should only be required the first time the script is run, or if you don't run the script for a few days. You will see something similar to the below in the output:

```bash
2025-02-09 14:38:27,708:INFO:ratingrelay:Starting RatingRelay
2025-02-09 14:38:27,708:INFO:plex:/tmp/ratingrelay/.env
2025-02-09 14:38:28,026:INFO:plex:Please open the below URL in a web browser to authenticate to Plex.
2025-02-09 14:38:28,026:INFO:plex:Plex auth URL: https://app.plex.tv/auth#?clientID=...&code=...&context%5Bdevice%5D%5Bproduct%5D=ratingrelay
```

Opening this URL will ask you to sign into your Plex account and authorize RatingRelay to access your server.

# 4. Run at regular intervals

Make sure you run the script manually once before setting up any of these methods. Otherwise, you will not be authenticated with your Plex server, and the script will hang and do nothing.

## Linux - cron

On Linux, you can set up a cronjob to run the script regularly. A complete explanation of Cron is outside the scope of this project - see [this](https://linuxhandbook.com/crontab/) tutorial instead.

[This tool](https://it-tools.tech/crontab-generator) can be used to help with the syntax of the time interval you desire.

Example: if you cloned the repository to `/home/user1/ratingrelay` and want to run the script once every 24 hours at midnight:
```bash
0 0 * * * /home/user1/ratingrelay/run_scripts/run_docker_linux.sh
```

If you do not wish to use docker, replace `run_docker_linux.sh` with `run_python_linux.sh`.

**Note:** if you want to move the scripts, you need to modify line 3: `cd "$( dirname "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" )../" || exit 1
`

This command changes the directory to the repo's base directory. If you want to copy the script somewhere else and run it, change this line to `cd /path/to/repo || exit 1`.

**Note:** if using `run_python_linux.sh`, the script assumes you followed the instructions above for setting up the Python environment and have a virtual environment placed at `/path/to/repo/.venv`. If you would like to use a different name for your virtual environment or place it in some other directory, change the path on line 8.

## Windows - scheduled task

Open the Start Menu and search for `Task Scheduler`. Then, click `Create Task`. Name the task whatever you like, then click the `Triggers` menu and click `New`. This will open a GUI menu in which you can configure the interval for executing the task. Then, click the `Actions` menu and click `New`. Provide the path to the run script you wish to use, which can be found in the `run_scripts` directory - `run_docker_windows.bat` for Docker, `run_python_windows.bat` otherwise.

Commit message:

Rename all references of "RATING_THRESHOLD" to "LOVE_THRESHOLD"; Add "HATE_THRESHOLD"
Also renamed function/variable names that referred to "rating threshold"

usage.md, after:

This page covers how to get up and running with RatingRelay.

The general steps are:
- Clone the repository: `git clone https://codeberg.org/hnolan/ratingrelay.git`
- Set environment variables
- Set up the project environment
- Run once to make sure everything works
- Set to run automatically at regular intervals

# 1. Environment variables

Start by renaming the file `.env.example` to `.env` and filling out the required values:
- `SERVER_URL`: the URL to reach your Plex server
- `MUSIC_LIBRARY`: the title of your music library
- `LOVE_THRESHOLD`: a number between 0 and 10; any tracks with a rating equal to or greater than this number will be submitted as Loved Tracks
  - Optionally, also specify `HATE_THRESHOLD` to submit Hated Tracks to ListenBrainz
- `BIDIRECTIONAL`: set to `true` to enable the application to write new ratings to Plex tracks if a track has been loved on an external service but has no rating on Plex

**Note:** you do not need to modify `PLEX_CID` or `PLEX_TOKEN`. They are set automatically during the authentication process. If you don't see these values in your `.env` file, don't worry, they are added during the authentication process.

For Last.fm usage:
- `LASTFM_API_KEY` and `LASTFM_SECRET`: obtain these at https://www.last.fm/api/account/create
- `LASTFM_USERNAME` and `LASTFM_PASSWORD`: your Last.fm username and password.
  - These are required to automate the authentication process. Without them, you would need to open a web browser and authorize the application every time the script is run.

For ListenBrainz usage:
- `LISTENBRAINZ_TOKEN`: obtain at https://listenbrainz.org/settings/
- `LISTENBRAINZ_USERNAME`: your ListenBrainz username

# 2. Set up project environment

## Option 1: Docker (preferred)

Run the following commands to 1) build the image and 2) run the script.

```bash
docker build . -t ratingrelay:latest
docker run -v $(pwd)/.env:/app/.env --rm ratingrelay:latest
```

The scripts in `./run_scripts/` are included to conveniently launch such containers via cron.

## Option 2: Local python

This method will run the script directly on your host machine using a Python virtual environment.

### With uv

- [Install uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/#installation)
- Clone the repository: `git clone https://codeberg.org/hnolan/ratingrelay`
- Enter the directory and install dependencies: `cd ratingrelay && uv sync --frozen`

You can now run the script with either of the below:
- `uv run /path/to/repo/ratingrelay.py`
- `/path/to/repo/.venv/bin/python /path/to/repo/ratingrelay.py`

### With pip

If you insist on running via a local Python installation, I strongly recommend using uv, which provides easier ways to manage Python projects. If, for whatever reason, you do not wish to use uv, you can set up a Python environment with pip.

- Clone the repository: `git clone https://codeberg.org/hnolan/ratingrelay`
- Enter the directory: `cd ratingrelay`
- Create a virtual environment: `python -m venv .venv`
- Activate the virtual environment: `source .venv/bin/activate`
- Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

To run the script, either
- Activate the virtual environment before executing: `source /path/to/repo/.venv/bin/activate && python /path/to/repo/ratingrelay.py`
- Use the virtual environment's interpreter to execute: `/path/to/repo/.venv/bin/python /path/to/repo/ratingrelay.py`


# 3. First run

The first time you run the script, you will need to check the logs for a Plex authentication URL. This should only be required the first time the script is run, or if you don't run the script for a few days. You will see something similar to the below in the output:

```bash
2025-02-09 14:38:27,708:INFO:ratingrelay:Starting RatingRelay
2025-02-09 14:38:27,708:INFO:plex:/tmp/ratingrelay/.env
2025-02-09 14:38:28,026:INFO:plex:Please open the below URL in a web browser to authenticate to Plex.
2025-02-09 14:38:28,026:INFO:plex:Plex auth URL: https://app.plex.tv/auth#?clientID=...&code=...&context%5Bdevice%5D%5Bproduct%5D=ratingrelay
```

Opening this URL will ask you to sign into your Plex account and authorize RatingRelay to access your server.

# 4. Run at regular intervals

Make sure you run the script manually once before setting up any of these methods. Otherwise, you will not be authenticated with your Plex server, and the script will hang and do nothing.

## Linux - cron

On Linux, you can set up a cronjob to run the script regularly. A complete explanation of Cron is outside the scope of this project - see [this](https://linuxhandbook.com/crontab/) tutorial instead.

[This tool](https://it-tools.tech/crontab-generator) can be used to help with the syntax of the time interval you desire.

Example: if you cloned the repository to `/home/user1/ratingrelay` and want to run the script once every 24 hours at midnight:
```bash
0 0 * * * /home/user1/ratingrelay/run_scripts/run_docker_linux.sh
```

If you do not wish to use docker, replace `run_docker_linux.sh` with `run_python_linux.sh`.

**Note:** if you want to move the scripts, you need to modify line 3: `cd "$( dirname "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" )../" || exit 1
`

This command changes the directory to the repo's base directory. If you want to copy the script somewhere else and run it, change this line to `cd /path/to/repo || exit 1`.

**Note:** if using `run_python_linux.sh`, the script assumes you followed the instructions above for setting up the Python environment and have a virtual environment placed at `/path/to/repo/.venv`. If you would like to use a different name for your virtual environment or place it in some other directory, change the path on line 8.

## Windows - scheduled task

Open the Start Menu and search for `Task Scheduler`. Then, click `Create Task`. Name the task whatever you like, then click the `Triggers` menu and click `New`. This will open a GUI menu in which you can configure the interval for executing the task. Then, click the `Actions` menu and click `New`. Provide the path to the run script you wish to use, which can be found in the `run_scripts` directory - `run_docker_windows.bat` for Docker, `run_python_windows.bat` otherwise.
